>> Woodruff: MORE U.S. TROOPS
WILL DEPLOY TO TRAIN AND ASSIST
AQIIR FORCES IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
SEARCHING FOR SOLUTIONS TO
DEFEAT AN INSURGENCY WITH NO END
IN SIGHT.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY:
PROMISING NEWFOR S BATTLING BAD
CHOLESTEROL.
THE F.D.A. BACKS POTENT DRUGS
THAT DOCTORS HOPE CAN PREVENT
HEART DISEASE.
THEN, THE FIRST LATINO POET
LAUREATE.
JUAN FELIPE HERRERA SHARES HIS
STORY AND POETRY.
PLUS, THE SHRINKING EVERGLADES:
RISING SEAWATER INVADES FLORIDA,
THREATENING THE FRAGILE
ECOSYSTEM OF UNPARALLELED
WETLANDS.
>> THE MORE OPEN WATER WE HAVE,
THE LESS WE ARE ABLE TO SUSTAIN
THE POTENTIAL IMPACTS FROM
STORMS THAT AFFECT US COMING
FROM THE GULF OF MEXICO.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET BROKE
OUT OF A WEEK-LONG SLUMP TODAY
AMID HOPES FOR A BREAK IN THE
GREEK BAILOUT DRAMA.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 236 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
18,000.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 60
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 ADDED
25.
ALSO TODAY, LOS ANGELES CITY
COUNCIL GAVE FINAL APPROVAL TO
RAISING THE LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE,
TO $15 AN HOUR.
IT'S THE LARGEST AMERICAN CITY
TO TAKE THAT STEP.
THE U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY IS MOVING TO
CURB EMISSIONS FROM COMMERCIAL
AIRCRAFT.
E.P.A. DECLARED TODAY THAT
GREENHOUSE GASES FROM PASSENGER
AIRLINERS, CARGO PLANES AND
BUSINESS JETS ARE A DANGER TO
PUBLIC HEALTH.
MILITARY AIRCRAFT AND SMALLER
PLANES WOULD BE EXEMPT FROM ANY
NEW REGULATIONS.
THE TOP FEDERAL HEALTH OFFICIAL
WARNED CONGRESS TODAY OVER A
LOOMING SUPREME COURT DECISION
ON HEALTH CARE.
AT ISSUE IS WHETHER FEDERAL
SUBSIDIES APPLY IN 34 STATES
WITHOUT THEIR OWN INSURANCE
EXCHANGES.
IF THE COURT SAYS "NO," MORE
THAN SIX MILLION PEOPLE WOULD
LOSE THEIR SUBSIDIES.
AT A HOUSE HEARING, THE
SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES, SYLVIA BURWELL, SAID
LAWMAKERS WILL FEEL THE HEAT.
>> IF THE COURT SAYS THAT WE DO
NOT HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO GIVE
SUBSIDIES, THE CRITICAL
DECISIONS WILL SIT WITH THE
CONGRESS, AND STATES AND
GOVERNORS TO DETERMINE IF THOSE
SUBSIDIES ARE AVAILABLE.
>> Woodruff: THE SUPREME COURT'S
DECISION IS DUE BEFORE MONTH'S
END.
POPE FRANCIS CREATED A TRIBUNAL
TODAY TO PURSUE CATHOLIC BISHOPS
WHO FAIL TO STOP PRIESTS FROM
COMMITTING.
A VATICAN ANNOUNCEMENT SAID THE
NEW PANEL WILL: "...JUDGE
BISHOPS WITH REGARD TO CRIMES OF
THE ABUSE OF OFFICE WHEN
CONNECTED TO THE (SEXUAL) ABUSE
OF MINORS."
THE POPE ALSO MET TODAY WITH
RUSSIA'S PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN, AND PRESSED FOR A
"SINCERE EFFORT" AT MAKING PEACE
IN UKRAINE.
THE HOUR-LONG SIT-DOWN CAME AT
THE VATICAN.
A PAPAL SPOKESMAN SAID FRANCIS
APPEALED FOR AN END TO FIGHTING
BETWEEN UKRAINE'S GOVERNMENT AND
PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS.
IN EGYPT, A SUICIDE BOMBER
TARGETED ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S
BEST-KNOWN ANTIQUITIES
TODAY.
AUTHORITIES SAID THE ATTACKER
BLEW HIMSELF UP IN THE PARKING
LOT NEXT TO LUXOR'S ANCIENT
KARNAK TEMPLE, AFTER GUARDS
BLOCKED HIM FROM ENTERING.
THAT TRIGGERED A GUNFIGHT WITH
TWO OTHER MEN.
TWO OTHER MEN. >> (
translated): I SAW
SOMEONE
>> (translated): I SAW
SOMEONE RUNNING AND SUDDENLY SAW
THE
RUNNING AND SUDDENLY SAW THE
EXPLOSION AND AFTER THE
EXPLOSION I SAW THAT A TAXI
DRIVER HAD CAUGHT ONE OF THE
ATTACKERS AND WAS BEATING HIM
AND SHOUTING FOR HELP.
SO I RAN TO HELP.
ANOTHER ATTACKER STARTED
SHOOTING AT US AND CAME AND SHOT
THE CAPTURED ATTACKER IN THE
HEAD.
THEN A POLICEMAN CAME AND SHOT
HIM.
>> Woodruff: NO TOURISTS WERE
KILLED OR HURT, AND THE TEMPLE
ITSELF WASN'T DAMAGED.
IT WAS THE SECOND ATTACK THIS
MONTH ON A MAJOR TOURIST SITE IN
EGYPT.
THE CORRUPTION SCANDAL AT
SOCCER'S WORLD GOVERNING BODY
HAS POSTPONED BIDDING FOR THE
2026 WORLD CUP.
THE HEAD OF FIFA SAID TODAY IT
WOULD BE "NONSENSE" TO START THE
PROCESS THIS WEEK.
SEPARATE U.S. AND SWISS
INVESTIGATIONS ARE UNDER WAY
INTO ALLEGED BRIBERY AT FIFA.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THERE'S
NEW INFORMATION ABOUT THE FATAL
AMTRAK CRASH IN PHILADELPHIA
LAST MONTH.
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD NOW SAYS THE
ENGINEER WAS NOT USING HIS CELL
PHONE TO TALK, TEXT OR DOWNLOAD
DATA BEFORE THE WRECK.
BUT A BOARD MEMBER TOLD SENATORS
THE PROBE ISN'T OVER.
>> THERE ARE 400,000 PIECES OF
DATA INVOLVED IN THE ANALYSIS
AND BECAUSE OF THE EXTENT OF
THAT, THINGS LIKE THE USE OF AN
APP OR THE OTHER USE OF A PHONE
HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.
>> Woodruff: EIGHT PEOPLE WERE
KILLED AND MORE THAN 200 WERE
HURT IN THE PHILADELPHIA CRASH.
U.S. SENATOR JOHNNY ISAKSON
REVEALED TODAY HE HAS EARLY-
STAGE PARKINSON'S DISEASE.
THE GEORGIA REPUBLICAN SAID HE
STILL PLANS TO RUN FOR A THIRD
TERM NEXT YEAR.
ISAKSON IS 70.
HE SAID HE WAS DIAGNOSED IN
2013, BUT DID NOT TELL HIS
CHILDREN OR STAFF UNTIL
RECENTLY.
PARKINSON'S IS A PROGRESSIVE
DISORDER OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS
SYSTEM.
AND, THE LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS
JAMES BILLINGTON IS STEPPING
DOWN AFTER NEARLY THREE DECADES.
HE'S 86 AND PLANS TO RETIRE
JANUARY 1.
BILLINGTON IS CREDITED WITH
BRINGING THE WORLD'S LARGEST
LIBRARY INTO THE DIGITAL AGE AND
DOUBLING ITS SIZE TO 160 MILLION
ITEMS.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
SEARCHING FOR THE BEST WAY TO
DEFEAT THE ISLAMIC STATE
INSURGENCY.
THE HYPE AND HOPE FOR NEW DRUGS
TO TREAT BAD CHOLESTEROL.
SALTY WALTERS INTRUDE AND
THREATEN WILDLIFE IN FLORIDA'S
EVERGLADES.
AND, THE FIRST LATINO POET
LAUREATE STEPS ONTO THE LARGER
NATIONAL STAGE.
>> Woodruff: ONE YEAR AGO TODAY,
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP SHOCKED
MANY AROUND THE WORLD AS IT
CAPTURED MOSUL, IRAQ'S SECOND
LARGEST CITY.
ONE YEAR LATER, IRAQ IS MIRED
IN A MULTI-FRONT WAR WITH THE
EXTREMIST ORGANIZATION AND
THOUSANDS HAVE BEEN KILLED.
THE WHITE HOUSE ANNOUNCED THIS
AFTERNOON THAT IT WILL SEND MORE
TROOPS TO HELP IRAQIS IN THE
FIGHT.
TONIGHT, WE'LL EXPLORE THAT
DECISION AND TAKE A LOOK BACK AT
THE RISE OF THE ISLAMIC STATE
IN IRAQ AS PART OF OUR SERIES
"NO END IN SIGHT."
>> THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN VERY
CLEAR THAT THE EFFORTS OF THE
UNITED STATES AND OUR COALITION
PARTNERS WILL BE TO SUPPORT THE
IRAQI PEOPLE.
WE WILL NOT DO FOR THEM WHAT
THEY MUST DO FOR THEMSELVES.
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE
LAID OUT PLANS TO SEND UP TO 450
ADDITIONAL MILITARY TRAINERS,
JOINING 3,100 TROOPS ALREADY
THERE, AND ESTABLISH A FIFTH
TRAINING BASE.
SPOKESMAN JOSH EARNEST:
>> IT REFLECTS THE NEED FOR THE
UNITED STATES, OUR COALITION
PARTNERS AND FOR THE IRAQI
GOVERNMENT TO BE NIMBLE AS WE
RESPOND TO AN ADVERSARY, AN
OPPONENT ON THE GROUND IN IRAQ
THAT HAS ALSO DEMONSTRATED A
CAPACITY TO ADAPT THEIR TACTICS
AND TO TRY TO CAPITALIZE ON
THEIR PERCEPTION OF WEAKNESSES.
>> Woodruff: ALL THIS FOLLOWS
THE ISLAMIC STATE'S CAPTURE LAST
MONTH OF RAMADI, CAPITAL OF
IRAQ'S LARGEST PROVINCE, ANBAR.
GOVERNMENT SOLDIERS FLED BEFORE
THE MILITANTS.
AND MONDAY, AT THE G-7 SUMMIT,
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID THERE'S NO
"COMPLETE STRATEGY" FOR
DEFEATING THE GROUP, UNTIL THE
IRAQIS ARE READY.
THAT BROUGHT RENEWED CRITICISM
FROM REPUBLICANS, WHICH HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER ECHOED
AFTER TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT.
>> I THINK ITS A STEP, IT'S A
STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION BUT
AS THE PRESIDENT ADMITTED THE
OTHER DAY, HE HAS NO STRATEGY TO
WIN.
>> Woodruff: EVEN TODAY, WHITE
HOUSE AND PENTAGON OFFICIALS
SAID THERE'S NO MAJOR CHANGE IN
EXISTING POLICY, AND NO PLANS TO
SEND U.S. COMBAT TROOPS.
BUT THERE WILL BE AT LEAST ONE
SUBSTANTIAL EFFECT: THE NEW
FOCUS ON RAMADI AND FALLUJAH IN
ANBAR PROVINCE IS LIKELY TO
DELAY A PLANNED CAMPAIGN TO
RECAPTURE MOSUL IN THE NORTH,
IRAQ'S SECOND LARGEST CITY.
IT'S BEEN ONE YEAR SINCE ISLAMIC
STATE FORCES, IN A LIGHTNING
ADVANCE, SEIZED MOSUL, A
STRATEGIC OIL HUB AND A GATEWAY
TO SYRIA.
AS IN RAMADI, IRAQI SOLDIERS PUT
DOWN THEIR GUNS, AND MANY SHED
THEIR UNIFORMS, LEAVING THEM IN
THE STREETS FOR ENEMY FIGHTERS
TO FIND.
TRIUMPHANT MILITANTS PARADED
THROUGH THE STREETS, AND
REFUGEES FLED TO CAMPS IN THE
KURDISH REGION, WHERE THOUSANDS
REMAIN.
REMAIN. >> (translated
): IMPOSSIBLE,
>> (translated):
IMPOSSIBLE, IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO
THINK I'VE
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO THINK I'VE
BEEN OUT OF THE TOWN FOR ONE
YEAR NOW, OR THAT THE CURRENT
SITUATION WOULD TAKE SUCH A LONG
TIME.
I COULD HAVE NEVER IMAGINED THAT
ON THIS DE, 9ATTH AND 10TH OF
JUNE, I'D BE HERE IN THIS PLACE.
IT'S A VERY SAD AND PAINFUL
ANNIVERSARY.
>> Woodruff: IN THE MEANTIME,
THE ISLAMIC STATE ESTABLISHED A
SO-CALLED CALIPHATE ACROSS LARGE
SWATHS OF NORTHERN SYRIA AND
IRAQ, AND REACHED WITHIN 50
MILES OF BAGHDAD.
AS THEY ADVANCED, THE MILITANTS
CARRIED OUT A REI OF GNTERROR,
INCLUDING BEHEADINGS OF
HOSTAGES, BRUTAL TREATMENT OF
WOMEN, AND DESTRUCTION OF
ANCIENT ARTIFACTS.
AND, THEIR INFLUENCE SPREAD ON A
GLOBAL SCALE, ATTRACTING UP TO
31,000 NEW FOREIGN FIGHTERS TO
THE REGION.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAD ONCE PLAYED
DOWN THE THREAT, LIKENING THE
SUNNI MILITANT GROUP TO A JUNIOR
VARSITY VERSION OF AL QAEDA.
AFTER THE FALL OF MOSUL, HE
LAUNCHED REPEATED AIR STRIKES IN
IRAQ AND SYRIA.
AND, HE ANNOUNCED THE INITIAL
EFFORT TO TRAIN IRAQI FORCES.
THE FALLOUT FROM MOSUL ALSO
TRIGGERED A POLITICAL SHAKEUP IN
IRAQ.
PRIME MINISTER NOURI AL-MALIKI
RESIGNED TWO MONTHS LATER, AND
HAIDER AL-ABADI TOOK OVER.
HE'S SINCE COMPLAINED THAT U.S.
HELP HAS BEEN TOO LITTLE AND TOO
LATE.
LATE. >> (translated
): AS YOU KNOW
>> (translated): AS YOU
KNOW ISLAMIC STATE WAS NOT BORN
IN
ISLAMIC STATE WAS NOT BORN IN
IRAQ, THEY ARE SUPPORTED BY
MEANS FROM OUTSIDE IRAQ, BY
EXTERNAL COMBATANTS.
WE CAN MAKE SACRIFICES TO FIGHT,
BUT THINTEE RNATIONAL COMMUNITY,
THE INTERNATIONAL COALITION HAS
TO SUPPORT US.
>> Woodruff: INSTEAD, ABADI'S
GOVERNMENT IS RELYING HEAVILY ON
IRANIAN-BACKED SHIITE MILITIAS.
THEY WERE CRITICAL TO THE
RECAPTURE OF TIKRIT, IN APRIL.
ISIS ALSO SUFFERED A SETBACK IN
SYRIA, WHERE KURDISH PESHMERGA
FORCES HELPED DRIVE THE
MILITANTS BACK FROM KOBANI, ON
THE TURKISH BORDER.
BUT SUCH GAINS HAVE BEEN GREATLY
TEMPERED BY THE LOSSES OF RAMADI
AND THE ANCIENT SYRIAN CITY OF
PALMYRA.
A BIG QUESTION WILL NOW BE
WHETHER TODAY'S U.S. MOVES CAN
HELP TURN THE TIDE.
JOINING ME NOW TO REVIEW TODAY'S
ANNOUNCEMENT AND THE FIGHT
AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE IN
IRAQ ARE: FORMER U.S. DEFENSE
SECRETARY AND C.I.A. DIRECTOR,
LEON PANETTA.
FORMER COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF
U.S. CENTRAL COMMAND, RETIRED
GENERAL ANTHONY ZINNI.
FORMER UNDER SECRETARY OF POLICY
AT THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE,
MICHELE FLOURNOY.
AND, RETIRED U.S. ARMY COLONEL
ANDREW BACEVICH.
WELCOME TO ALL FOUR OF YOU.
LET ME JUST QUICKLY GO AROUND
THE GROUP, TO BEGIN, AND GET
YOUR RESPONSE TO THIS ADDITION
OF 450 MORE MILITARY ADVISORS IN
IRAQ.
SECRETARY PANETTA, YOU FIRST.
>> WELL THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT
I THINK THE PRESIDENT'S TAKEN
THE RIGHT STEP IN ADDING THESE
TRAINERS AND ADVISORS.
WE'RE IN A TOUGH SITUATION WHERE
I.S.I.S., OBVIOUSLY, IS
RESILIENT.
THEY'VE GOT A LOT OF MOMENTUM.
I THINK WE NEED TO DO THIS.
I SUSPECT THAT WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO TAKE MORE STEPS,
PARTICULARLY THAT WE'RE NOW IN A
COMBAT ZONE, WHERE WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO HAVE MORE FLEXIBLE
RULINGS OF ENGAGEMENT.
I THINK WE DO NEED ADDITIONAL
SPECIAL FORMS TO HELP NOT ONLY
WITH C.T. OPERATIONS BUT WITH
TARGETING AND I DO THINK WE HAVE
TO ENSURE THAT ARMS DO FLOW BOTH
TO THE SUNNIS AND THE KURDS.
ALL OF THAT IS GOING TO BE
NECESSARY IN ORDER TO BE ABLE TO
ACHIEVE THE MISSION THAT WE'VE
EMBARKED ON.
>> Woodruff: MICHELE FLOURNOY,
GOOD MOVE OR NOT?
>> I THINK IT'S A GOOD MOVE AND
A SMART MOVE.
IT ALLOWS US TO START TRAINING
THE IRAQI SECURITY FORCES AND
MOST IMPORTANTLY THE LOCAL SUNNI
MILITIA FORCES IN ANBAR PROVINCE
MORE FULLY AND INTENSIVELY.
THE REAL QUESTION IS WHETHER
THIS IS A FIRST STEP IN A
BROADER SERIES.
I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO BE
EFFECTIVE WE NEED TO ALSO ALLOW
OUR FORCES TO ADVICE DURING
OPERATIONS WHEN THE IRAQIS
ACTUALLY GO INTO COMBAT, BUT
ALSO BE ABLE TO CALL IN MORE
EFFECTIVE AIR STRIKES.
>> Woodruff: ANDREW BACEVICH,
WHAT ABOUT YOU?
IS THIS THE RIGHT THING TO DO
RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S A VERY
MODEST ADJUSTMENT TO THE
EXISTING POLICY AND THE EMPHASIS
HERE IS ON "VERY MODEST."
THE POLICY IS BASED ON THE
ASSUMPTION THAT WE HAVE THE
CAPABILITY TO CREATE EFFECTIVE
IRAQI FORCES.
NOW, WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT IT, WE
HAVE BEEN TRYING TO DO THAT FOR
TEFORTEN YEARS, NOW.
WE'VE NOT SUCCEEDED, AND I'M A
LITTLE BIT SKEPTICAL THAT THE
ADDITION OF 450 TRAINERS IS
GOING TO MAKE THAT MUCH OF A
DIFFERENCE.
I'M SURE THAT THEY WILL BE ABLE
TO TRANSFER SOME IMPORTANT
SKILLS TO THE PEOPLE THAT THEY
TRAIN, BUT WILL THEY BE ABLE TO
TRANSFER THE WILL TO FIGHT,
WHICH WOULD SEEM TO BE THE
FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEM WITH THE
IRAQI FORCES THAT HAVE BASICALLY
BEEN TAKING A LICKING FROM
I.S.I.S.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL ZINNI?
I THINK IT'S AN INDICATION WE
CONTINUE TO UNDERESTIMATE THE
CAPABILITY OF I.S.I.S., THE
ENEMY, AND OVERESTIMATE THE
CAPABILITIES OF THE IRAQI
MILITARY TO DEAL WITH THIS.
THE STRATEGY FROM THE BEGIN HAS
HAD SEVERAL FLAWS, IN MY VIEW.
ONE, IT BELIEVES TIME IS ON OUR
SIDE.
IT'S BEEN A YEAR, NOW, THAT
I.S.I.S. HAS OCCUPIED LAND
INSIDE IRAQ AND HAS BASICALLY
NOT MOVED MUCH AND WE HAVEN'T
BEEN ABLE TO MOVE THEM MUCH.
SECOND, IT DEPENDS ON SOME
MAGICAL GROUND FORCE THAT'S
GOING TO APPEAR THROUGH SOME
COALITION OR THE RESURRECTION OF
AN IRAQI MILITARY THAT'S
EFFECTIVE, THAT HASN'T HAPPENED.
THIRD, IT'S BASED ON AN IRAQI
GOVERNMENT, TO FOLLOW WHAT
ANDREW SAID, IS GOING TO CREATE
MORE IN THE HEARTS OF THE IRAQI
MILITARY TO BE WILLING TO FIGHT,
AND THAT HASN'T MATERIALIZED
EITHER.
SO I THINK THIS IS ALMOST DEJA
VU TO VIETNAM BEFORE WE
COMMITTED THE GROUND FORCES, WE
DRIBBLE IN MORE AND MORE
ADVISORS AND SUPPORT.
IT'S NOT WHAT'S IN THE HANDS OF
THE SOLDIERS, AS ANDREW SAID,
IT'S WHAT'S IN THEIR HEARTS, AND
THAT'S GOING TO BE THE
DIFFERENCE, AND I DON'T THINK WE
CAN CONTINUE TO LET THIS THING
JUST GO ON AS IT IS.
>> Woodruff: WELL, LET ME TURN
TO SECRETARY PANETTA.
WHY ARE NOT THOSE CONCERNS
YOURS, SECRETARY PANETTA?
WHY SHOULDN'T AMERICANS BE
CONCERNED THAT IF THE IRAQIS
DON'T HAVE THE WILL TO FIGHT,
WHY SHOULD MORE U.S. TRAINERS
MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
>> THIS ISN'T JUST ABOUT IRAQ.
THIS IS ABOUT A THREAT TO OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY.
IF I.S.I.S. IS ALLOWED TO HAVE A
BASE OF OPERATIONS IN IRAQ, MAKE
NO MISTAKE ABOUT IT, THEIR
INTENTIONS ARE TO USE THAT AS A
BASE OF ATTACKING OUR COUNTRY
AND ATTACKING OUR HOMELAND.
THAT'S WHY WE'VE GOT TO PUSH THE
IRAQIS TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
SUNNIS DO ENGAGE AND THAT THE
KURDS DO THE SAME.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING YOU
DON'T THINK THE IRAQIS HAVE THAT
WILL.
>> WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, I THINK
SECRETARY PANETTA IS VASTLY
EXAGGERATING THE THREAT, THOSE
BY I.S.I.S.
THE THREAT POSED TO I.S.I.S. BY
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IS
ACTUALLY VERY, VERY LIMITED.
WE PROBABLY SHOULD BE WORRYING
MORE ABOUT DRUG LORDS IN MEXICO,
IN TERMS OF A DIRECT THREAT TO
OUR SAFETY.
I.S.I.S. THREATENS THE STABILITY
OF A REGION THAT WE OURSELVES
DESTABILIZED AS A RESULT OF OUR
OWN FOLLY BACK IN 2003, AND
THAT'S WORTH REMEMBERING,
BECAUSE WE OUGHT TO BE JUST A
LITTLE BIT HUMBLE ABOUT THINKING
SOME KIND OF COMMITMENT OF
AMERICAN MILITARY POWER DIRECTLY
OR INDIRECTLY IS GOING TO FIX
THE PROBLEM.
THE EVIDENCE IS QUITE CLEAR --
U.S. MILITARY INTERVENTION IN
THIS REGION CREATES GREATER
INSTABILITY, NOT STABILITY.
IF WE WANT TO SOMEHOW FIND A WAY
TO PUT THE REGION BACK TOGETHER
AGAIN, WE NEED TO LOOK TO
SOMEONE ELSE TO ASSUME THE
PRINCIPAL BURDEN FOR TAKING THE
FIGHT TO I.S.I.S.
>> Woodruff: LET ME TURN TO
MICHELE FLOURNOY.
WHY ISN'T HE RIGHT, THAT THE
U.S. REALLY IS OVERESTIMATING
THE STRENGTH OF I.S.I.S. AND WE
SHOULD BE MORE WORRIED ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON IN OUR BORDER TO
THE SOUTH RATHER THAN THIS
FIGHTING THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS
OF MILES AWAY?
>> I THINK WE NEED TO LOOK
BEYOND THE SNAPSHOT OF I.S.I.S.
TODAY.
I.S.I.S. IS THE NEW JIHADIST
VANGUARD IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
GLOBALLY.
THEY ARE DISPLACING AL QUAIDA AS
SORT OF THE GROUP TO FOLLOW AND
THE GROUP TO EMULATE.
THEY ARE GAINING GROUND IN LIBYA
AND EVEN IN AFGHANISTAN.
THEY, I THINK IN THE NEXT FEW
YEARS, IF NOT STOPPED, WILL
DISPLACE AL QUAIDA AND BE A
GLOBAL NETWORK THAT WILL NOT
ONLY HAVE OBJECTIVES LOCALLY,
BUT WILL HAVE TRANSNATIONAL
OBJECTIVES.
WE ALREADY SEE THOUSANDS OF
FOREIGN FIGHTERS COMING FROM
EUROPE, PRIMARILY OTHER STATES
IN THE GULF, THOSE FIGHTERS WILL
EVENTUALLY RETURN AND BE LOOKING
TO CARRY OUT JIHAD IN THE
COUNTRIES.
BUT THIS QUESTION OF WILL TO
FIGHT, I THINK THE KEY QUESTION
IS POLITICAL.
THE SUNNIS HAVE BEEN PERSECUTED
BY A SHIA-DOMINATED GOVERNMENT
IN IRAQ.
THEY WILL FIGHT IF THEY BELIEVE
THAT THERE IS A -- THEY'RE GOING
TO BE TREATED DIFFERENTLY IN THE
END.
THAT'S WHAT WILL CREATE THE WILL
TO FIGHT ON THE PART OF THE
SUNNI POPULATION.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THIS
QUESTION THAT THIS IS A FIGHT
THE U.S. SHOULD BE MAKING AT ALL
AT THIS POINT?
WHY SHOULD THE U.S. BE INVESTING
MORE OF ITS MEN AND WOMEN AND
MATERIAL IN THAT PART OF THE
WORLD?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I SORT OF
COME DOWN IN BETWEEN.
I DO THINK IT'S IN OUR NATIONAL
INTEREST TO HAVE A STABLE MIDDLE
EAST FOR ALL SORTS OF REASONS.
COULD BE WITH ENERGY RESOURCES,
OUR TRADE ROUTES GO THROUGH
THERE, THE THREATS TEND, TO AS
MICHELE POINTED OUT, TEND TO
METASTASIZE AND SPREAD GLOBALLY,
SO WE DO HAVE INTEREST.
MY PROBLEM WITH THE SECRETARY'S
POSITION, IF IT IS IN OUR VITAL
INTEREST, THEN WE HAVE THE
ABILITY TO CRUSH I.S.I.S.
THEY STEPPED UP TO A
CONVENTIONAL FIGHT.
WE'RE NOT FULLY COMMITTED TO
THIS FIGHT.
WE USE TERMS LIKE DESTROY.
I CAN TELL YOU, YOU COULD PUT
GROUND FORCES ON THE GROUND NOW
AND WE CAN DESTROY I.S.I.S. AND
WE CAN SEND THEM BACK INTO IRAQ
AND COULD EVEN GET THERE.
I WOULD ALSO TELL YOU THERE ARE
COALITION FORCES OUT THERE THAT
WOULD JOIN US IF WE PUT FORCES
ON THE GROUND.
THE TROUBLE WITH THAT, AND I GO
TO ANDREW'S POINT, THAT IF YOU
DO, AND I KNOW IT'S THE CONCERN
OF THIS ADMINISTRATION, WE'RE
GOING TO GET BOGGED DOWN INTO AN
ENDURING COMMITMENT.
THAT COULD ONLY BE MITIGATED BY
HAVING THE IRAQIS DEVELOP INTO
THE KIND OF FORCE THAT CAN
REPLACE A COALITION FORCE THAT
MAY BE INITIALLY THERE TO
DEFEAT, IN THE INITIAL STAGES,
I.S.I.S.
I WAS IN IRAQ WHEN MALIKI WAS
ELECTED, AND EVERYBODY IN
BAGHDAD, IRAQIS, OUR EMBASSY AND
GENERALS INCLUDED, SAID MALIKI
IS THE KEY.
IF HE DOESN'T HAVE AN INCLUSIVE
GOVERNMENT AND REACH OUT TO THE
SUNNIS, PARTICULARLY, THIS THING
WILL COME APART.
AND WHAT HAPPENED.
>> Woodruff: LET ME COME BACK
TO THE POINT YOU DIRECTED TO
SECRETARY PANETTA, AND THAT IS
THE U.S. COULD SEND A FEW
BRIGADES IN AND DISPENSE WITH
I.S.I.S. IN THE SHORT RUN.
SECRETARY PAN NET AT THAT,
THAT'S CLEARLY AN ARGUMENT OUT
THERE, REPUBLICANS RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT, SOME ARE ADVOCATING
THAT, WHY IS THAT THE WRONG STEP
TO TAKE NOW?
>> WELL, LOOK, AGAIN, I DON'T
THINK THERE'S ANY QUESTION THAT
OUR NATIONAL SECURITY INTERESTS
ARE INVOLVED HERE.
OTHERWISE, WHY WOULD WE EVEN BE
THERE IN THE FIRST PLACE?
BUT THE REALITY IS THAT WE KNOW
HOW TO DO THIS WITHOUT DEPLOYING
THE 101 AIRBORNE OR A LARGE
NUMBER OF BRIGADES THERE.
THE FACT IS WE'RE GOOD AT
COUNTERTERRORISM.
THAT'S WHAT WE DID IN IRAQ
BEFORE WE LEFT, THAT'S WHAT WE
DID IN AFGHANISTAN BEFORE WE
LEFT.
WE TARGETED THE ENEMY
EFFECTIVELY, WE HELPED TRAIN
THEIR SECURITY FORCES.
THEY WERE IN A POSITION WHERE
THEY WERE DOING VERY EFFECTIVE
SECURITY OPERATIONS ON THE
GROUND, AND THE REALITY IS WE
KNOW HOW TO DO THIS, AND WE KNOW
HOW TO WIN AT DOING THIS.
SO ALL WE REALLY DO NEED TO DO,
IT SEEMS TO ME, IS TO BE ABLE TO
GIVE OUR MILITARY COMMANDERS THE
FLEXIBILITY TO DESIGN NOT ONLY
THE STRATEGY TO DEGRADE I.S.I.S.
BUT THE LARGER STRATEGY WE NEED
IN ORDER TO DEFEAT I.S.I.S.
I THINK WHAT'S MISSING NOW IS
WHAT THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF
ACKNOWLEDGED IS NOT THERE, WHICH
IS THE LARGER STRATEGY THAT IS
NEEDED TO SHOW WHAT ARE WE GOING
TO DO IN ORDER TO MOVE I.S.I.S.
OUT OF IRAQ AND THEN TAKE ON
I.S.I.S. IN SYRIA?
THIS HAS TO BE PART OF THAT
LARGER STRATEGY AND, IF IT IS
THERE, IF WE CAN DEFINE THAT
LARGER STRATEGY, THEN I THINK WE
CANNOT ONLY WORK WITH OUR ARAB
ALLIES IN THAT REGION, WE CAN
ALSO DEVELOP THE CONSENSUS THAT
WE NEED FROM THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
TO CONTINUE THIS COMMITMENT.
>> Woodruff: WELL, I
UNDERSTOOD THE PRESIDENT WHEN HE
SAID THERE IS NOT A COMPLETE
STRATEGY TO BE REFERRING TO THE
FACT THAT THE IRAQIS HAVE NOT
YET RECRUITED AND TRAINED
SUFFICIENT TROOPS TO CARRY OUT
THE FIGHT.
ANDREW BACEVICH, LET ME COME
BACK TO YOU.
IF THE U.S. WORKING WITH IRAQ
WERE TO DO WHAT SECRETARY
PANETTA JUST DESCRIBED, WERE TO
HAVE THE SUPPORT OF THE ALLIES
IN THE REGION, COUNTRIES IN THE
REGION, WHY ISN'T THAT THE WAY
TO MOVE FORWARD NOW?
>> AGAIN, WITH ALL DUE RESPECT,
WE DON'T KNOW HOW TO DO THIS.
I MEAN, WE WERE IN -- THE U.S.
MILITARY WAS IN IRAQ FROM 2003,
AND 2011, FOUR YEARS LATER WE
HAVE THIS BASKET CASE ON OUR
HANDS.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT FOR US TO
RECOGNIZE THAT THERE ARE SOME
PROBLEMS THAT AMERICAN MILITARY
MIGHT CANNOT SOLVE, AND THIS
ORDER AND DYSFUNCTION IN THIS
PART OF THE WORLD IS AT THE VERY
TOP OF THE LIST OF THOSE
PROBLEMS.
SO IT IS TRUE THAT WE HAVE AN
INTEREST IN RESTORING STABILITY
TO THAT PART OF THE WORLD.
WHAT'S NOT TRUE IS THAT AMERICAN
MILITARY POWER IS THE WAY TO
MAKE THAT HAPPEN AND, THEREFORE,
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO WIDEN
THE DISCUSSION, TO CONSIDER THE
POSSIBILITY THAT THERE MAY BE
OTHERS IN THE REGION BETTER ABLE
TO BRING ABOUT STABILITY THAN WE
OURSELVES CAN DO.
>> Woodruff: MICHELE FLOURNOY,
WHY NOT?
WHY NOT DO AS COL. BACEVICH
SAYS?
>> WELL, I THINK IF WE WERE TO
USE U.S. FORCES TO DISPATCH
I.S.I.S., TAKE GENERAL ZINNI'S
PLAN FROM A TACTICAL MILITARY
PERSPECTIVE, BUT THAT DOESN'T
SOLVE A PROBLEM, BECAUSE THE
REAL PROBLEM IS MAKE SURE THAT
THE IRAQI EXALSTY HOLDS THE
TERRITORY, SECURES IT FOR A LONG
TERM SO I.S.I.S. DOESN'T COME
BACK AGAIN AND THAT INVOLVES
LARGER POLITICAL COMPROMISES WE
WERE DISCUSSING BEFORE AND
INVOLVES THE LONGER-TERM
CAPABILITY.
I DO AGREE WITH PROFESSOR
BASEOVICH THAT THIS SHOULD NOT
BE A U.S. ACTION, IT IS ONE THAT
INVOLVES MANY COUNTRIES AND
PARTICULARLY THE NEIGHBORING
STATES HAVE A VERY IMPORTANT
ROLE TO PLAY TO TRY TO
UNDERWRITE IRAQ'S STABILITY
LATER ON.
>> Woodruff: I HEAR ANDREW
BACEVICH SAYING THE U.S. HASN'T
SHOWN IT CAN DO THIS KIND OF
FIGHT AND SHOULD BE LEAVING IT
UP TO THE COUNTRIES IN THE
REGION, WHETHER IRAN OR ANYONE
ELSE WHO FEELS I.S.I.S. IS A
THREAT.
>> WELL, AGAIN, WITH GREAT
RESPECT TO HIM, YOU KNOW, WE'VE
LEARNED TIME AND TIME AGAIN,
PARTICULARLY IN THESE LAST FEW
YEARS, WITH CRISIS AFTER CRISIS
THAT IF THE UNITED STATES
DOESN'T PROVIDE LEADERSHIP IN
THESE CRISES, NOBODY ELSE WILL.
I DON'T KNOW WHO THE HELL HE
EXPECT WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
TURN TO, TO BE ABLE TO PROTECT
OUR NATIONAL SECURITY IN THIS
SITUATION.
THE UNITED STATES IS GOING TO
HAVE TO PROVIDE THAT LEADERSHIP.
YES, WE NEED TO WORK WITH THE
IRAQIS AND OTHER ALLIES IN THE
REGION, BUT WE HAVE TO PROVIDE
THAT LEADERSHIP.
WE CAN'T JUST STAND ON THE
SIDELINES WRINGING OUR HANDS.
I MEAN, ASK THE PEOPLE OF PARIS
WHAT HAPPENED THERE WITH
I.S.I.S.
ASK THE PEOPLE IN BRUSSELS WHAT
HAPPENED THERE WITH I.S.I.S.
WHAT'S HAPPENED IN TORONTO?
WHAT'S HAPPENED IN THIS COUNTRY
AS A RESULT OF THE THREAT FROM
I.S.I.S.?
THIS IS A NATIONAL SECURITY
THREAT AND WE SHOULDN'T KID
OURSELVES ABOUT THAT.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL ZINNI?
THE LAST VICTIM WHICH WE HAD,
WE USED OVERWHELMINGLY FORCE,
ENDED IT QUICKLY, WENT TO TUN,
GOT A RESOLUTION AND BUILT A
COALITION.
THAT OUGHT TO BE A MODEL WE
OUGHT TO LOOK AT.
IN TERMS OF BUILDING A COALITION
IN THIS REGION, WE HAVE TO
REALIZE SEVERAL THINGS --
THEY'RE INCAPABLE OF PUTTING IT
TOGETHER THEMSELVES, FOR SEVERAL
REASONS.
SOME OF IT IS POLITICAL BUT A
LOT HAS TO DO WITH CAPACITY.
COMMAND AND CONTROL, LOGISTICS,
INTELLIGENCE, THE BACKBONE THEY
NEED IS US.
MORE IMPORTANTLY, THEY NEED US
TO SHARE THE RISK UP FRONT, TOO,
AND THAT'S WHY I'M AN ADVOCATE
OF SOME GROUND FORCES FROM US ON
THE GROUND.
>> Woodruff: FINAL WORD FROM
ANDREW BACEVICH TO SECRETARY
PANETTA WHEN HE SAID IF THE U.S.
DOESN'T DO IT, WHO IS?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE IS
ANOTHER COUNTRY IN THE REGION
THAT ACTUALLY DOES HAVE THE WILL
AND MAY WELL POSSESS THE
CAPACITY TO DEFEAT I.S.I.S. AND
HAS A VERY POWERFUL INTEREST IN
DOING SO, AND LIKE IT OR NOT,
THAT COUNTRY IS IRAN, AND WE
SHOULD LOOK TO THE POSSIBILITY
NOT OF FORGING SOME KIND OF
FORMAL PARTNERSHIP WITH IRAN BUT
OF SEEING IF THERE'S SOME WAY TO
ASSIST THEM FORMALLY IN THEIR
EFFORTS.
SOME MIGHT SAY, GOSH, THEY'RE
THE BAD GUYS.
IN WORLD WAR II, IN ORDER TO
DEFEAT THE IMMEDIATE THREAT,
NAZI GERMANY, WE MADE A
PARTNERSHIP WITH A MASS MURDERER
CALLED JOSEPH STALIN.
SO SOMETIMES WHEN YOU CAN'T FIX
THE PROBLEM ON YOUR OWN, YOU
NEED TO MAKE SOME COMPROMISES
AND FIND THE PARTNERS WHO CAN
GET THE JOB DONE FOR YOU.
>> Woodruff: I HEARD SO MANY
HEADS SHAKING.
I GIVE MICHELE FLOURNOY THE LAST
WORD.
>> IT IS NOT IN U.S. INTEREST TO
EMPOWER IRAN'S ROLE INSIDE IRAQ
OR ANYWHERE IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
GIVEN THEIR SUPPORT FOR
TERRORISM AND ACTIVITIES
THROUGHOUT THE REGION.
I THINK THAT MIGHT BE A VERY
APPEALING FROM A TACTICAL
PERSPECTIVE BUT I DON'T THINK
THAT'S IN OUR STRATEGIC
INTERESTS, AGAIN, WITH ALL DUE
RESPECT.
>> Woodruff: WITH A LOT OF DUE
RESPECT TO ALL FOUR OF YOU.
MICHELE FLOURNOY, FORMER
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE LEON
PANETTA, GENERAL ANTHONY ZINNI
AND COLONEL ANDREW BACEVICH, WE
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IT'S ESTIMATED THAT
MORE THAN 30 MILLION AMERICANS
ARE TAKING MEDICATIONS LIKE
LIPITOR AND ZOCOR TO LOWER THEIR
OVERALL CHOLESTEROL LEVELS.
BUT AS POPULAR AS THESE DRUGS
ARE, THEY DON'T WORK FOR
EVERYONE.
MANY CANNOT TOLERATE THEM
EASILY, AND FOR SOME EOPLPE,
THEY SIMPLY DON'T LOWER THEIR
CHOLESTEROL SIGNIFICANTLY.
NOW, THE F.D.A. APPEARS POISED
TO APPROVE A POWERFUL NEW CLASS
OF DRUGS THAT WOULD BE USED WITH
STATINS TO ATTACK CHOLESTEROL
LEVELS IN A MORE TARGETED WAY.
IT AMOUNTS TO A NEW METHOD FOR
CUTTING DOWN L.D.L., OFTEN
REFERRED TO AS BAD CHOLESTEROL.
AN F.D.A. ADVISORY COMMITTEE HAS
BACKED THE APPROVAL OF TWO NEW
DRUGS IN THIS CLASS FOR SOME
GROUPS OF PEOPLE.
HARI SREENIVASAN PICKS UP THE
STORY FROM THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE F.D.A. WILL
DECIDE LATER THIS SUMMER WHETHER
TO FOLLOW THE PANEL'S
RECOMMENDATIONS.
BUT IT USUALLY DOES SO.
AND THE DRUGS, WHICH ARE
INJECTED ONCE OR TWICE A MONTH,
HAVE BEEN SHOWN TO BE EFFECTIVE
AT LOWERING BAD CHOLESTEROL IN
EARLY TRIALS.
STILL, LARGER TRIALS NEED TO BE
COMPLETED TO SEE IF THEY PREVENT
HEART ATTACKS AND STROKES.
AND THEN THERE'S THE QUESTION OF
HOW MANY PEOPLE MAY ULTIMATELY
TAKE THEM.
MORE THAN 70 MILLION AMERICANS
HAVE HIGH L.D.L.
INITIALLY, THEY MAY COST AROUND
$10,000 A YEAR PER PATIENT.
WE TALK TO TWO CARDIOLOGISTS
ABOUT THESE QUESTIONS.
DOCTOR STEVEN NISSEN IS THE
CHAIR OF CARDIOLOGY AT THE
CLEVELAND CLINIC.
FOR THE RECORD, HE IS LEADING A
STUDY OF ONE OF THE DRUGS AND IS
ON THE STEERING COMMITTEE FOR A
PFIZER CLINICAL TRIAL.
HE TAKES NO MONEY FROM THE
COMPANIES.
AND, DOCTOR HARLAN KRUMHOLZ IS
PROFESSOR OF CARDIOVASCULAR
MEDICINE AT THE YALE SCHOOL OF
MEDICINE.
DR. NISSEN, WHAT DO THE
MEDICATIONS DO THAT THE
MEDICATIONS ON THE SHELVES TODAY
DON'T DO?
>> LDL IS THE PRIMARY DRIVER OF
CORONARY HEART DISEASE, THE MOST
IMPORTANT RISK FACTOR WE CAN
MODIFY.
WE HAVE GREAT DRUGS LIKE ZOCOR
AND LIPITOR, STATIN DRUGS, THAT
ARE EFFECTIVE AT LOWERING LDL
CHOLESTEROL AND PREVENTING HEART
ATTACK, STROKE AND DEATH, BUT
NOT EVERYBODY GETS AN ADEQUATE
RESPONSE TO THOSE DRUGS.
SOME PEOPLE ARE GENETICALLY
PROGRAMMED, THEY HAVE VERY HIGH
LEVELS OF BAD CHOLESTEROL, LDL,
AND DON'T GET WELL ENOUGH WITH
THOSE DRUGS, AND THERE ARE OTHER
PEOPLE WHO ARE INTOLERANT TO
HAVE THE DRUGS.
SO WE'VE NEEDED ANOTHER CLASS OF
DRUGS.
THESE DRUGS ARE REALLY POWERFUL.
THEY LOWER LDL ANYWHERE FROM 50
TO 70%, AND THAT'S ADDED ON TOP
OF THE EFFECTS OF THE STATIN
DRUGS.
SO THEY'RE VERY EXCITING, VERY
POWERFUL.
>> Sreenivasan: WITHOUT
GETTING TOO FAR INTO THE WEEDS,
IN LAY TERMS, HOW DO THEY WORK?
HOW ARE THEY DIFFERENT?
>> THEY INCREASE THE ACTIVITY OF
THE RECEPTORS IN THE LIVER
RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING LDL
CHOLESTEROL.
WHEN YOU INTERFERE WITH THE
PROTEIN THAT'S INVOLVED IN
DEGRADING THOSE RECEPTORS, THE
RECEPTORS BECOME MORE ACTIVE AND
THEY'RE REMOVING A LOT OF
CHOLESTEROL FROM THE BLOODSTREAM
AND IT'S CHOLESTEROL IN THE
BLOODSTREAM THAT ENDS UP AS
PLAQUES IN THE CORONARY ARTERIES
THAT LEADS TO HEART ATTACKS AND
CONSEQUENCES.
>> Sreenivasan: CONSIDER
KRUMHOLZ -- DR. KRUMHOLZ, THE
FDA IS MOVING TO APPROVE.
THIS SEEMS LIKE THIS DRUG IS ON
A FAST TRACK.
>> IT'S A REMARKABLE STORY.
OBSERVATIONS OF FAMILIES THAT
LED TO MOLECULAR BIOLOGY STUDIES
THAT LED TO THE DRUGS AND I
THINK THERE IS A LOT OF
EXCITEMENT ABOUT THEM.
WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THE VERDICT
IS NOT IN YET.
SO IT IS TRUE THAT BAD
CHOLESTEROL, THE LDL
CHOLESTEROL, CTRIBONUTES TO
HEART DISEASE AND WOULD SEEM IN
THEORY IF WE COULD LOWER IT TO
LEVELS IT WOULD BENEFIT
PATIENCE.
BUT THESE AND OTHER DRUGS HAVE A
LOT OF DIFFERENT EFFECTS AND
WHAT WE NEED TO UNDERSTAND IS AT
THE END OF THE DAY, IF PEOPLE
TAKE THESE DRUGS, CAN THEY
EXPECT TO LIVE LONGER OR BETTER?
JUST KNOWING WHAT IT DOES TO THE
CHOLESTEROL IS A HINT.
IT'S AN ASSURANCE THAT THAT'S
LIKELY, IT'S POSSIBLE.
THERE IS OTHER INFORMATION
ABILITY THESE DRUGS THAT MAKE US
HOPEFUL THAT THAT'S TRUE, BUT
THERE ARE A LOT OF STUDIES IN
THE FIELD NOW THAT WILL BE
COUNTING EVENTS, DETERMINING
WHETHER PEOPLE REALLY BENEFIT
FROM THESE DRUGS AND UNTIL THOSE
STUDIES ARE COMPLETED, WE WON'T
KNOW FOR SURE.
SO WE WANT TO TEMPER OUR
ENTHUSIASM.
THESE DRUGS MAY BE RESERVED FOR
THE PEOPLE WHO NEED THEM MOST.
WE NEED TO BE CAREFUL BY NOT
OVERREACHING WITH THE
INFORMATION WE HAVE SO FAR.
>> Sreenivasan: BY THE TIME
THE TRIALS FINISH UP, HOW LONG
UNTIL A DRUG FROM THIS CLASS
GETS TO MARKET?
>> WELL, THE FDA IS GOING TO
MAKE A DECISION THIS SUMMER, AND
MOST OF US ANTICIPATE THEY WILL
FOLLOW THE ADVICE OF THE
ADVISORY PANEL AND APPROVE THE
DRUGS PERHAPS NOT FOR A BROAD
POPULATION BUT FOR A LIMITED
POPULATION.
THE FDA IS ACTING CAREFULLY.
THEY KNOW THAT THE CLINICAL
TRIALS THAT ARE GOING TO MEASURE
THE OUTCOMES WE CARE ABOUT, LIKE
HEART ATTACK AND STROKE AND
DEATH, ARE ONGOING.
AT LEAST ONE OF THESE TRIALS
WITH 27,000 PATIENTS IS ACTUALLY
COMPLETELY ENROLLED AND SHOULD
REPORT IN 2017.
SO WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS
PROVIDING EARLY ACCESS TO THE
DRUGS FOR THOSE PEOPLE THAT HAVE
THE MOST NEED WHILE WAITING TO
GIVE A BROAD LABEL FOR THE DRUGS
UNTIL WE HAVE THE KIND OF
OUTCOME STUDIES DR. KRUMHOLZ
WANTS AND I WANT TO.
WE REALLY DO NEED THE OUTCOME
TRIALS, BUT IT'S ABOUT BALANCING
WHAT'S IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST.
I AGREE WITH THE FDA.
I THINK IT'S IN THE PUBLIC
INTEREST TO GET THE DRUGS TO
MARKET NOW FOR THE PEOPLE THAT
ARE MOST IN NEED.
>> DR. KRUMHOLZ, HOW MUCH ARE
SOME OF THE DRUGS GOING TO COST?
IS IT THE STANDARD WHERE THE
FIRST ONES COST A LOT AND ONCE
YOU MAKE A BILLION OF THEM, THEY
GET CHEAPER?
>> I THINK IT'S HARD FOR ME TO
DETERMINE ON WHAT BASIS WE'RE
PRICING DRUGS.
IF YOU LOOK AT ANY OF THE CANCER
DRUGS, THE HEP C DRUGS, THEY'RE
COMING OUT AT EXTRAORDINARILY
HIGH COST AND IT'S HARD TO KNOW
EXACTLY WHERE THIS WILL BE
PRICED.
I THINK IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO KNOW
ABOUT THE VALUE THE DRUGS ARE
BRINGING UNTIL WE HAVE THE OTHER
STUDIES COMPLETED AND KNOW WHAT
EFFECT THE DRUGS HAVE ON
PEOPLE'S LIVES.
SO I'M IN AGREEMENT WITH
DR. NISSEN.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO GIVE
EARLY ACCESS IF POSSIBLE TO
PEOPLE WHO HAVE LITTLE CHOICE OR
FOR WHOM CHOLESTEROL REPRESENTS
THEIR BIGGEST RISK AND FOR WHOM
THEY'RE NOT REALLY RESPONDING
TO, CAN'T TOLERATE OTHER
OPTIONS.
BUT WE NEED TO BE CAREFUL.
WHAT'S IMPORTANT IS WE DON'T
KNOW THE VALUE AT ALL UNTIL WE
KNOW WHAT BENEFIT IT'S
PROVIDING.
ONCE WE KNOW THAT, WE CAN PUT
INTO PERSPECTIVE WHAT THE COSTS
ARE.
BUT THESE COULD BREAK THE BANK
BECAUSE THERE ARE SO MANY PEOPLE
AT RISK FOR HEART DISEASE, WE'RE
GOING TO NEED TO BE THOUGHTFUL
ABOUT THE WAY IN WHICH THE DRUGS
ARE USED AND BE CAREFUL IN
THINKING ABOUT WHAT IS THE
BENEFIT FOR WHAT WE'RE PAYING
FOR.
>> HARLAN KRUMHOLZ AND STEVEN
NISSEN, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, HARI.
>> Woodruff: LAST MONTH, ON THE
ANNIVERSARY OF EARTH DAY,
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA VISITED
FLORIDA'S EVERGLADES TO
HIGHLIGHT ONE OF BIGGEST THREATS
FROM GLOBAL WARMING AND CLIMATE
CHANGE: THE RISE IN SEA LEVEL
THAT'S ALREADY IMPACTING ONE OF
THE UNIQUE NATURAL HABITATS IN
ALL THE WORLD.
AND THE CONSEQUENCES AREN'T JUST
TO THE HUNDREDS OF SPECIES OF
ANIMALS AND PLANTS THAT FOR
CENTURIES HAVE CALLED THE
EVERGLADES HOME, IT'S TO THE
ECONOMY AND WAY OF LIFE FOR
MILLIONS IN SOUTH FLORIDA WHO
DEPEND ON THE VAST AND TEEMING
WATERSHED ONCE DUBBED THE RIVER
OF GRASS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MIKE
TAIBBI TOUCHED DOWN ON THAT
GREAT RIVER, TO GET A CURRENT
ASSESSMENT OF ITS HEALTH AND
PROSPECTS.
THIS STORY COMES TO THE NEWSHOUR
FROM WNET AND THE TEAM THAT
PRODUCES PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> Reporter: 40-YEAR OLD PETE
FREZZA HAS SPENT HIS WORKING
LIFE IN THE EVERGLADES IN TWO
DISTINCTLY DIFFERENT ROLES: AS
ONE OF THE MANY FISHING GUIDES
WHO EXPLOIT ITS RICH WATERS TO
MAKE A LIVING...
>> OH, YOU GOT ONE, ALRIGHT!
>> Reporter: ...AND AS AN
AUDUBON SOCIETY BIOLOGIST WHO
THRILLS AT THE SIGHT OF DOLPHINS
CORRALLING A BREAKFAST OF FRESH
MULLET, OR OF THE ODD AND
ELEGANT ROSEATE SPOONBILLS
FORAGING FOR THR OWEIN MEALS.
>> YOU'LL NOTICE THEY'RE IN THAT
SMALL SHALLOW POND, THEIR BILL
IS SWEEPING BACK AND FORTH.
THEY'RE CATCHING SHRIMP.
THERE, ONE JUST CAUGHT A FISH!
>> Repoer: rtBUT FREZZA'S WONDER
AT WHAT HE SEES EVERY DAY IS
TINGED WITH WORRY OVER WHAT HE
KNOWS-- THAT THE INTRUSION OF
RISING SEAWATER IS MOVING THE
VITAL ESTUARY WHERE SALT MEETS
FRESH INLAND.
SHRINKING THE EVERGLADES, AND
CHANGING SPOTS LIKE THIS ONE
WHERE THERE WERE NEARLY 400
SPOONBILL NESTS BARELY A DECADE
AGO.
>> CURRENTLY, WE ONLY HAVE ABOUT
40 TO 50 NESTS IN THIS AREA.
A LOT OF THESE BIRDS ARE NOW
SHIFTING THEIR NESTING LOCATIONS
FARTHER INLAND.
>> Reporter: THE BIRDS ARE JUST
ONE SIGN-- ONE OF MANY MARKERS
SCIENTISTS ARE WATCHING THAT
SHOW THAT AS SALT WATER FROM THE
OCEANS FLOWS INWARD IT IMPACTS
FRESHWATER WILDLIFE, AND
THREATENS THE AQUIFERS THAT
SUPPLY DRINKING WATER FOR MORE
THAN SEVEN MILLION FLORIDIANS.
SO WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA CAME
HERE IN APRIL, THE SCIENCE
COMMUNITY WAS GRATEFUL FOR THE
HIGH-PROFILE EMPHASIS.
>> IN TERMS OF ECONOMIC IMPACT,
ALL OF THIS POSES RISKS TO
FLORIDA'S $82 BILLION TOURISM
INDUSTRY ON WHICH SO MANY GOOD
JOBS AND LIVELIHOODS DEPEND.
>> Reporter: FOR NOW, TOURISM IN
THE EVERGLADES APPEARS TO BE
THRIVING.
>> THE BOAT BOARDS AT 2:25 RIGHT
OVER THERE.
>> IN GERMANY THE EVERGLADES IS
WELL KNOW AS THE BEST PLACE IN
THE WORLD!
>> Reporter: IT CERTAINLY IS A
UNIQUE PLACE.
THE GREAT RIVER OF GRASS FLOWS
SOUTH FROM LAKE OKEECHOBEE AS A
SHALLOW SHEET OF FRESH WATER
ROUGHLY 60 MILES WIDE AND A
HUNDRED MILES LONG, UNTIL IT
MEETS SALTWATER.
IN THE PAST CENTURY THE CANALS
AND DRAINAGE DITCHES DUG TO
SUPPORT DEVELOPMENT AND
AGRICULTURE HAVE SHRUNK THE
EVERGLADES AND TODAY, A WILD
HABITAT ONCE THE SIZE OF
CONNECTICUT IS SMALLER BY MORE
THAN HALF.
THE EVERGLADES IS NOW A HABITAT
DIMINISHED BY A FREQUENT
SHORTAGE OF FRESHWATER.
ADD TO THAT SALTWATER INTRUSION
PUSHED BY RISING TIDES.
EIGHT INCHES OF RISE IN THE 20th
CENTURY, AND UP TO FOUR MORE
FEET PROJECTED BY THE END OF
THIS CENTURY, AND FOR MANY
EXPERTS LIKE FREZZA, THIS COULD
SPELL DISASTER FOR THIS CRUCIAL
WATERSHED.
>> FROM OUR RESEARCH, WHAT WE
FOUND IS THE SMALL FISH THAT ARE
THE FORAGE BASE FOR WADING BIRDS
DO-- DO MUCH BETTER AND ARE MUCH
MORE PRODUCTIVE UNDER FRESHER
CONDITIONS.
SO, AS THE SALTIER IT GETS,
THAT'S LESS PRODUCTIVE FOR THESE
SMALL FISH.
THEREFORE, IT'S AFFECTING THE
HEALTH AND STATUS OF THE WADING
BIRD SPECIES THAT WE'RE
MONITORING.
>> Reporter: AND IF THE BIRDS
ARE LOSING THEIR FOOD SUPPLY, SO
ARE THE BIG GAME FISH.
THE DAMAGE IS CLEAR, ACCORDING
TO SOME BACKCOUNTRY CHARTER
CAPTAINS.
>> THERE'S NO DOUBT THAT RIGHT
NOW WE'RE SEEING LESS PREDATORY
FISH THAN WE DID TEN YEARS AGO.
AND THAT SAYS A LOT RIGHT THERE.
>> Reporter: PETE SHOWED US MORE
EVIDENCE OF THE CHANGES:
ISLANDS IN WHAT WAS ONCE A
FRESHWATER LAKE NOW ADORNED WITH
MANGROVE STANDS AND OTHER
SALTWATER PLANT LIFE.
CANALS, ONCE NARROW RIBBONS DUG
BY DEVELOPERS, NOW, DUE TO
EROSION AND THE HIGHER TIDES,
HUNDREDS OF FEET WIDE.
HE BROUGHT US TO SPOTS WHERE THE
LAND IS SLOWLY DROWNING.
THESE MANGROVES NOW DYING IN THE
WATER USED TO BE ON DRY LAND,
EVEN AT THE HIGHEST TIDES.
NOT ANYMORE THOUGH, NOT AS THE
SALT WATER MOVES INLAND.
AND INLAND IS WHERE ECOLOGISTS
LIKE DR. TIFFANY TROXLER AND HER
RESEARCHERS ARE MEASURING THE
EFFECTS OF SEA LEVEL RISE ON
CRUCIAL MARSH GRASSES.
>> HISTORICALLY WHAT WE HAD HERE
WAS A FRESHWATER MARSH.
BUT WE HAVE INCREASING SEA LEVEL
RISE AND WE HAVE REDUCED FRESH
WATER FLOW THROUGH THE SYSTEM
AND THAT HAS THE EFFECT OF
MAKING FRESH WATER MARSHES
SALTY.
>> Reporter: AMONG HER TEAM'S
UNNERVING FINDINGS: A
PHENOMENON CALLED PEAT COLLAPSE
CAUSED IN PART BY SALT WATER
INTRUSION.
THE WIDESPREAD BREAKDOWN OF THE
ONCE THICK LAYER OF PEAT SOIL
NEEDED TO SUPPORT THE STURDY
VEGETATION OF A FRESHWATER
HABITAT.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT SOME OF THIS
SAWGRASS, YOU CAN TELL WHERE
THERE ROOTS ARE MUCH HIGHER.
THAT'S BECAUSE SOIL USED TO BE
THERE.
BUT NOW THE SOIL LEVEL HAS
DECREASED DRAMATICALLY.
>> Reporter: THE COMBINATION OF
LESS SOIL AND LESS ABOVE-GROUND
HABITAT NOT ONLY SQUEEZES THE
PROSPECTS FOR THE HUNDREDS OF
PLANT AND ANIMAL SPECIES THAT
HAVE FLOURISHED HERE, THE
EVERGLADES' HUMAN NEIGHBORS ARE
THREATENED TOO.
LESS FRESH WATER BEING FILTERED
FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION-- MANY
WELLS ON THE COAST OF SOUTH
FLORIDA ARE NOW CONTAMINATED BY
SALT WATER.
AND LESS PROTECTION AGAINST THE
REGION'S FREQUENT STORMS, LIKE
HURRICANE WILMA IN 2005.
>> NEIGHBORHOODS NEAR THE
EVERGLADES ARE UNDERWATER.
>> THESE FRESHWATER WETLANDS ARE
CONVERTING TO OPEN PONDS OF
WATER.
AND THE MORE OPEN WATER WE HAVE,
THE LESS WE ARE ABLE TO SUSTAIN
THE POTENTIAL IMPACTS FROM
STORMS THAT AFFECT US COMING
FROM THE GULF OF MEXICO.
>> Reporter: FLORIDA'S GOVERNOR
RICK SCOTT IS A CLIMATE CHANGE
SKEPTIC, THOUGH HE DENIED RECENT
REPORTS THAT SOME STATE
OFFICIALS WERE BANNED FROM USING
THE TERMS CLIMATE CHANGE AND
GLOBAL WARMING IN THEIR OFFICIAL
CORRESNDENPOCE.
STILL, IN FLORIDA, THERE'S
GROWING PUBLIC SUPPORT TO DO
MORE: MORE STUDY, MORE CONTROL
OF THE PLACES WHERE SALT WATER
MEETS FRESH.
THERE'VE BEEN SOME SUCCESS
STORIES, LIKE THIS SMALL DAM.
>> WHAT IT DID WAS BLOCK THE
SALTWATER MOVING IN FROM THE
GULF OF MEXICO FROM ENTERING THE
MORE BRACKISH WATER INTERIOR
ZONE.
AND WE ACTUALLY SAW AN INCREASE
IN FRESHWATER FISH SPECIES.
>> Reporter: AND A $10 BILLION
FEDERAL AND STATE PROGRAM IN
PLACE FOR A DECADE IS THE
CORNERSTONE OF A LONG-RANGE
EFFORT TO REDIRECT FRESHWATER
BACK INTO THE WETLANDS TO
STRENGTHEN THE BARRIER TO
SALTWATER INTRUSION, BUT THIS
PLAN STILL AWAS FITULL FUNDING.
MANY EXPERTS FEAR THAT IF
NOTHING IS DONE, THIS COULD END
UP UNDER SALT WATER BY THE END
OF THIS CENTURY-- THE EVERGLADES
AS WE KNOW IT GONE.
ALONG WITH THE SOURCE OF
DRINKING WATER FOR MILLIONS AND
A WAY OF LIFE FOR MANY.
>> THE EVERGLADES ARE THE HEART
AND SOUL OF WHAT WE DO.
IT'S NOT JUST CATCHING FISH.
IT'S GOING BACK THERE, SEEING
THE WILDLIFE, SEEING THE BIRD
LIFE.
IT'S A FULL EXPERIENCE.
IT'S EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: AS FOR PETE FREZZA,
HE GOES OUT EVERY DAY, CALLING
TO HIS FAVORITE BIRDS.
THIS ONE'S FOR A YELLOW RBLEWAR,
AND HE REMAINS HOPEFUL.
HOPEFUL THAT WE CAN GET IT
RIGHT.
AND THE WARBLERS, DOLPHINS AND
HIS BELOVED SPOONBILLS CAN KEEP
COMING BACK, FOR A MEAL, FOR A
BREEDING SEASON, FOR A GOOD
WHILE LONGER.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M MIKE
TAIBBI IN THE FLORIDA
EVERGLADES.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A LOOK AT THE
NEW POET LAUREATE OF THE UNITED
STATES, A MAN WITH A DISTINCT
STYLE OF WRITING WHO IS THE
FIRST LATINO TO HOLD THE
POSITION, AND SERVED AS
CALIFORNIA'S POET LAUREATE.
NOW HE'S STEPPING ONTO A LARGER
STAGE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS A PROFILE.
LET US GATHER IN A
FLOURISHING WAY.
WAY.
(READING IN SPANISH)
PEARLS OF GREAT FLOWING VINES.
LET US GATHER IN A FLOURISHING
WAY.
>> Brown: A BLEND OF LANGUAGES
AS THE CAR DRIVES THROUGH THE
HEAT IN SUNDAY AFTERNOON IN
CALIFORNIA'S SAN JOAQUIN VALLEY.
BEHIND THE WHEEL, 66-YEAR-OLD
JUAN FELIPE HERRERA.
WERE YOU SURPRISED WHEN YOU GOT
THE CALL YOU WERE POET LAUREAT?
(LAUGHTER)
>> I WAS PRIZED.
IT WAS A -- I WAS SURPRISED.
IT WAS A SUPER SURPRISE.
I'M THINKING YES AND ALSO
THINKING THIS WAS VERY BIG.
>> Brown: HERRERA WAS BORN
HERE BUT DIDN'T STAY LONG.
A CHILD FROM MEXICO, HIS FIRST
YEARS WERE SPENT ON THE ROAD.
>> WE WENT FROM CROP TO CROP,
FIELD TO FIELD AND MY FATHER HAD
A 1940s ARMY TRUCK FROM
FORT BLISS, EPASOL .
>> Brown: THAT'S HOW YOU
TRAVELED?
>> THAT'S HOW WE TRAVELED.
>> Brown: ALL AROUND
CALIFORNIA?
>> ALL AROUND CALIFORNIA.
>> Brown: IT WAS DURING THOSE
LONG TRAVELS HIS MOTHER FIRST
ENTERTAINED YOUNG JUAN WITH A
TATTERED FAMILY PHOTO ALBUM, AND
TOLD HIM STORY AFTER STORY TO
ACCOMPANY THE PICTURES.
WHEN THEY SETTLED NEAR
SAN FELIPE AND JUAN WENT TO
SCHOOL, HE WANTED TO TELL
STORIES.
IT WAS FORBIDDEN.
>> THE FIRST DAY I WANTED TO
TALK AND I WAS NOT ALLOWED TO
TALK BECAUSE I SPOKE SPANISH.
PERHAPS BECAUSE OF THAT, I
LIKELY WANTED TO TALK.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Brown: IT WAS WORDS AND
POETRY THAT ILLUMINATED HIS PATH
INTO A LARGER WORLD.
WHEN YOU COME TO A PLACE LIKE
THIS NOW, DO YOU SEE A LINE FROM
HERE TO YOUR POETRY?
>> IT'S AN INTERESTING LINE.
IT'S A VERY INTERESTING LINE.
PERHAPS THE ROADS ARE SPREAD OUT
AND HOW THEY CURL IN MANY
DIRECTIONS AND HAVE MANY
FEATURES, THAT'S HOW MY ROAD HAS
BEEN.
IT HAS REACHED OUT IN DIFFERENT
DIRECTIONS TO MEXICO, TO THE
PUEBLOS, TO FAMILIES, STUDENTS,
TEACHING IN WORKSHOPS,
EXPERIMENT, AND, OF COURSE, MY
FATHER AND MOTHER'S HANDS ON
THESE LEAVES.
>> Brown: YOU BEING BORN IN A
PLACE LIKE THIS.
>> AND BEING BORN RIGHT HERE.
SO IT'S ALL MY STORY.
>> Brown: ON THE CAMPUS OF
FRESNO STATE UNIVERSITY WHERE HE
WOULD LATER TEACH, HERRERA TOLD
ME OF HIS TIME AS A COLLEGE
STUDENT AT U.C.L.A. IN THE
FERVOR OF THE 1960s AND
'70s, PART OF A MOVEMENT OF
CHICANO CIVIL RIGHTS AND
CULTURE.
>> WE WERE WORKING ON BECOMING
VISIBLE.
>> Brown: BECOMING VISIBLE.
ECOMING VISIBLE.
AND ALSO MAKING OUR COMMUNITIES
VISIBLE.
AND OUR HISTORIES VISIBLE.
YOU KNOW, WORDS AND THE WAY OF
SEEING WHAT WAS GOING ON
VISIBLE.
LET US GATHER IN A FLOURISHING
WAY.
>> Brown: AFTER TEACHING AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
RIVERSIDE FOR MANY YEARS,
HERRERA RETIRED TO FRESNO WHERE
HE LIVES WITH HIS WIFE
MARGARITA, CHILDREN AND
GRANDCHILDREN NEARBY, AUTHOR OF
BOOKS, INCLUDING A NUMBER
WRITTEN FOR CHILDREN.
HIS POETRY IS A MIX OF STYLES,
SOME FEEL LIKE AN INCANTATION.
HE CRIENTS ALAN GINSBURG -- HE
CITES ALAN GINSBURG AS AN
INFLUENCE.
YOUR WORK IS VERY EX
PERSONALITILE, DIFFERENT STYLES
YOU'RE TRYING, YET, AT THE SAME
TIME, YOU ARE CLEARLY TRYING TO
REACH PEOPLE, RIGHT?
>> YES.
OU WANT TO BE UNDERSTOOD.
ES.
YEAH, WE CAN UNDERSTAND POETRY
IN A BILLION STYLES.
EXPERIMENT, TRADITION,
COMBINATION, SPICE, IMAGE, IT'S
ALL THERE FOR THE POET, THE
LISTENER AND ALL OF US.
THAT'S WHAT IT'S ABOUT, YOU
KNOW.
>> Brown: AS CALIFORNIA'S POET
LAUREAT, HERRERA WROTE AND
ENGAGED OTHERS ON THE ISSUES OF
THE DAY, INCLUDING BULLYING
AMONG YOUNG PEOPLE, AND HE'S
LONG WITHIN CONCERNED WITH THE
HUMAN AND POLICY DRAMA OF
MIGRATION.
I >>HAVE A PIECE CALLED MORTAR
BUS AND IT'S ABOUT TWO WOMEN ON
A BORDER BUS ON A BUS THAT HAD
BEEN DETAINED AND THEY HAD BEEN
ARRESTED AND HAULED IN AND PUT
IN A BUS, AND ONE SAYS, WE'L WHE
ARE WE GOING?
THE OTHER SAYS NOWHERE.
THEOUT BURN SAYS, I COME FROM
NOWHERE.
>> Brown: HERRERA TOLD ME AS
WE WALKED THROUGH FRESNO'S MALL
ON MONDAY MORNING, HE NOW FEELS
A GREAT RESPONSIBILITY.
>> I KNOW I'M REPRESENTING THE
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, ALL TO HAVE
THE UNITED STATES AND, OF
COURSE, THE LATINOS AND LATINAS
AS WELL.
>> THAT PARTICULAR COMMUNITY.
AS WELL, YES.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT BECAUSE I
WANT TO PROMOTE THE WRITERS IN
THOSE COMMUNITIES, PROMOTE
WRITING, PROMOTE READING, BOOKS,
AND PROMOTE THE PEOPLE AND WHO
WE ARE.
(READING POETRY IN ENGLISH AND
SPANISH)
>> Brown: IN CALIFORNIA'S
SAN JOAQUIN VALLEY, I'M JEFFREY
BROWN FOR THE PBS "NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, OUR
"NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE DAY,
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
WHICH MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU, TOO.
PHOTOGRAPHER DIANA KIM DOCUMENTS
THE LIVES OF HAWAII'S HOMELESS.
IT'S A PROJECT SHE BEGAN IN
2012, BUT IT TOOK ON NEW MEANING
A YEAR LATER, AFTER SHE LEARNED
THAT HER OWN FATHER, WHO
STRUGGLED WITH MENTAL ILLNESS,
WAS LIVING ON THE STREETS OF
HONOLULU.
DIANA HAD NOT SEEN HER FATHER IN
SEVERAL YEARS WHEN HER
GRANDMOTHER TOLD HER THAT MR.
KIM WAS HOMELESS.
SO DIANA WENT LOOKING FOR HIM.
WHEN SHE FOUND HIM, HE WAS LIKE
A STRANGER, AND HE DID NOT EVEN
ACKNOWLEDGE HIS DAUGHTER'S
PRESENCE.
OVER THE COURSE OF ALMOST TWO
YEARS, DIANA REGULARLY SOUGHT
HER FATHEOUT,R BUT HE REFUSED
HER OFFERS OF FOOD AND CLOTHING.
SO DIANA DID WHAT SHE KNEW HOW:
SHE PHOTOGRAPHED THEIR
ENCOUNTERS, INCLUDING THEIR
REUNION IN A HOSPITAL ROOM AFTER
MR. KIM HAD A HEART ATTACK THAT,
IRONICALLY, LAUNCHED HIM BACK ON
THE PATH TO HEALTH.
DIANA SHARED THESE IMAGES IN A
RECENT PHOTO ESSAY FOR "HONOLULU
MAGAZINE."
SHE WRITES, "SHARING TS FAHIMILY
STORY IS SCARY... BUT I ALSO
KNOW THAT THIS COULD REACH
PEOPLE WHO ARE HAVING SIMILAR
EXPERIENCES."
MORE OF DIANA KIM'S WORK CAN BE
FOUND ON HER PROJECT'S WEBSITE,
homelessparadise.com, WHERE YOU
CAN ALSO READ ABOUT HER EFFORTS
TO EXPAND MEDICAL ACCESS FOR THE
HOMELESS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, IN THE U.S., AN AVERAGE OF
TWENTY-ONE PEOPLE DIE EVERY DAY
WAITING FOR AN ORGAN TRANSPLANT,
AND WAIT TIMES CAN RANGE FROM
FOUR MONTHS TO FIVE YEARS.
BUT ACCORDING TO A NEW STUDY,
PUBLIC POLICIES HAVE DONE LITTLE
TO CLOSE THE GAP BETWEEN SUPPLY
AND DEMAND.
SO WHAT CAN STATES DO TO INSPIRE
MORE ORGAN DONATION?
WE HAVE A REPORT ON WHAT THE
EXPERTS ARE SAYING, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR, WE
CONTINUE OUR SERIES OF REPORTS
FROM WEST AFRICA, "CRACKING
EBOLA'S CODE."
MILES O'BRIEN REPORTS FROM
FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE ON THE
PUSH TO FIND A VACCINE.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT.
>> IT'S DARK AND EARLY IN SIERRA
LEONE.
A TEAM OF PHARMACISTS IN A
NON-DESCRIPT GOVERNMENT BUILDING
PREPARING THE DAY'S SUPPLY OF AN
EXPERIMENTAL VACCINE AGAINST
EBOLA.
THE THE CLOCK STARTS RUNNING,
AND THEY TAKE THE VACCINE OUT OF
A VERY DEEP FREEZE.
THIS IS LIKELY THE COLDEST SPOT
IN THE WHOLE COUNTRY.
THE VACCINE CAN ONLY BE THAWED
OUT RIGHT BEFORE INJECTED OR IT
WILL LOSE ITS POTENCY AND ALL OF
THIS WILL BE A WASTE OF TIME,
MONEY AND HOPE.
SO RIGHT NOW, TIMING AND
TEMPERATURE ARE ABSOLUTELY
CRITICAL.
AND THEN IT HAPPENS.
>> OKAY.
>> Reporter: ANOTR HEREMINDER
OF HOW HARD IT IS TO CONDUCT A
HIGH-TECH VACCINE TRIAL ON ONE
OF THE POOREST COUNTRIES ON THE
PLANET.
>> Woodruff: THAT REPORT
TOMORROW ON THE "NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: THAT'S TOMORROW ON
NEWSHOUR.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.